Video Store
===========

In the 1990s and early 2000s (when Internet was still a new medium for the general public)
it was quite common for people to rent movies in so called _[video stores][vs]_.
Initially, [VHS][VHS] cassettes were rented, followed by [DVD][DVD] and [Blu-ray][BR] discs later on.

Introduction
------------
This library allows to calculate and print a statement of a customer’s charges at a video store.
The program is told which movies a customer rented and for how long. It then calculates the charges,
which depend on how long the movie is rented, and the type of movie.

In addition to calculating charges, the statement also computes frequent renter points, which vary
depending on whether the film is a new release.

There are three kinds of movies:
1. regular
2. children’s
3. new releases.

The code in this project (with the exception of [`Main`][1] class) comes from 1999, so it is very old.
Although it can seem to be small at the first sight, you can imagine it to be part of a much bigger project.

### Project Structure
The key part of this project is in the `cz.muni.fi.pv260.videostore` package and comprises of three classes:

| Class           | Purpose |
| -----           | ------- |
| [`Customer`][2] | represents a customer (with its _name_), keeps track of all the active rentals and renders the _statement_ |
| [`Rental`][3]   | represents a single rental (the _movie_ with a number of _days_ it has been _rented_ so far) |
| [`Movie`][4]    | represents an individual movie (its _title_ and type, represented as _price code_) |

Current State
-------------
The key element is the `Customer.statement()` method, which renders the statement in ASCII (already outdated
format during late 1990s). The generated statement looks like this:
```text
Rental Record for Martin Fowler
	Alien	2.0
	Lion King	1.5
	Titanic	9.0
You owed 12.5
You earned 4 frequent renter points
```

The above statement could be generated by a client program like this:
```java
import cz.muni.fi.pv260.videostore.Customer;
import cz.muni.fi.pv260.videostore.Movie;
import cz.muni.fi.pv260.videostore.Rental;

public final class Example {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        var customer = new Customer("Martin Fowler");
        customer.addRental(new Rental(new Movie("Alien", Movie.REGULAR), 1));
        customer.addRental(new Rental(new Movie("Lion King", Movie.CHILDRENS), 2));
        customer.addRental(new Rental(new Movie("Titanic", Movie.NEW_RELEASE), 3));
        System.out.print(customer.statement());
    }
}
```
In fact, the [`Main`][1] class is actually doing the very same thing, although a little less explicitly.

Future Changes
--------------
Our clients would like to make a few changes. First they want a statement printed in HTML so that the statement
can be _Web enabled_ (a very legitimate request even in 1999). The clients also want to make changes to the way
they classify movies, but they have not yet decided on the change they are going to make. They have a number of changes
in mind and these changes will affect both the way renters are charged for movies and the way that frequent renter points
are calculated. They are also considering additional movie categories.

[vs]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Video_store
[VHS]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VHS (Video Home System)
[DVD]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DVD (Digital Video Disc)
[BR]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blu-ray

[1]: src/main/java/Main.java
[2]: src/main/java/cz/muni/fi/pv260/videostore/Customer.java
[3]: src/main/java/cz/muni/fi/pv260/videostore/Rental.java
[4]: src/main/java/cz/muni/fi/pv260/videostore/Movie.java
